Brief Homage to the Twenty-One Tārās
by Khenpo Ngawang Palzang

om arya taré yé
Oṃ ārya tārāyai!
sishyi künkhyab namkün tongpanyi
Emptiness, supreme in aspect, pervading all existence and quiescence,
dü sum sangye malü jungwé né
Is the source of all the awakened buddhas of past, present and future—
sherab parchin chöku yum chenmo
Goddess of Transcendent Wisdom (Prajñāpāramitā), great dharmakāya mother,
jetsün pakma yum la chaktsal lo
Reverend and noble mother, to you I pay homage!

namdak pema drawé shyingkham su
Within the utterly pure realm Lotus Net,
sangye ma chak pemé chen ngawa
You are the Buddha with eyes of wisdom as pure and unstained as a lotus,
yichen tadak dewar ukjin dzé
Who brings blissful relief to all.
jetsün pakma yum la chaktsal lo
Reverend and noble mother, to you I pay homage!

duljé kham dang wang po jé drak gi
To match the varied temperaments and capacities of those to be trained,
gang dul chiryang charwé gyutrul gyi
You take on magical forms and appear as is most effective,
namrol trulpé lhamo nyur pamo
Emanated goddess in your many guises: She who is swift and courageous;
yangchen sönam chok ter tsuktor gyal
Sarasvatī; She who grants supreme merit; Uṣṇīṣavijayā;
kurukullé jikjé chenmo dang
Kurukullā; She who causes terror;
tummo mi tub shyen mi gyalwa dang
Caṇḍālī the indomitable; She who is invincible;
kham sum namgyal nor ter wang jé ma
She who conquers the three realms; She who bestows wealth; She who overpowers;
tashi dönjé lhamo drapung jom
Goddess who brings auspiciousness; She who vanquishes opponents;
tronyer chen dzé rabshyi barwé ö
She who wears a wrathful frown; She who is perfect peace; Lady who is ablaze with light;
pakmé nön ma maja chenmo dang
She of limitless subjugation; Majestic as the great peacock;
mipam gyalmo ritrö lo gyön ma
She who is unconquerable and victorious; Paranasabari, who dwells in mountain solitude;
özer chen ma nam la chaktsal lo
And Mārīcī, ‘Rays of Light’—to you all I pay homage!

detar nying né solwa tabpé tü
Through the power of these, my heartfelt prayers,
changchub sem jong gang nang lha kur dak
May I master bodhicitta, purify all appearances into deity form,
kyedzok dön la rang jen tsüpa dang
And gain proficiency in the generation and perfection stages!
yangdak lam gyi galkyen kün shyi shying
May all adverse circumstances on the genuine path be pacified,
tünkyen mönpa malü yishyin drub
And may all be favourable so that all our wishes are fulfilled!
mi gé dikpa malü kün dak né
Having purified all non-virtuous, unwholesome action,
shyen gyi dang dang milam ngenpa dral
May we avoid others’ enmity and have no inauspicious dreams!
ngendrö jik lé kyobpar jingyi lob
Bless us so that we may be protected from fears of the lower realms!

mikhom gyé du namyang mi kyé shying
May we never take birth in the eight inopportune states,
taktu kyewa dren dang wangpo sal
Always remember our past lives and have faculties that function clearly.
tsultrim namdak chö la yi shyung né
May our discipline be pure as we practise Dharma with integrity!
nyönmong lé kyi nampar minpa lé
Bless us so that we may be protected, guarded and shielded
sung dang kyob dang bepar jingyi lob
From the ripening of mental afflictions and past karma!

ma rung dra dang dön gek tsewa dang
Pacify unruly enemies, harmful influences, obstacle-makers and violence,
dümin chi dang rim dang duk gi né
Untimely death, epidemics and illness brought on by poisoning!
malü shyi shying dakpar dzé né kyang
And, having quelled and purified all such obstacles,
tartuk pakmé gong chö ngöngyur shok
May we ultimately realize Noble Tārā’s wisdom and conduct!

Thus, in response to a request from Lama Sangye,1 this was written by Gyalse Pema Ledrel Tsal.
May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019. With many thanks to Sean Price for his helpful suggestions.

Source: ngag dbang dpal bzang. "'phags ma sgrol ma la gsol 'debs/." In gsung 'bum/_ngag dbang
dpal bzang /. 9 vols. Chengdu: [s.n.], [199-?]. (BDRC W22946) Vol. 3: 583–586

Version: 1.2-20220114
↑ Possibly Chatral Rinpoche Sangye Dorje (1913–2015).