Gyang Lu – A Song of Calling the Guru from Afar
by Khenpo Ngakchung

pha jetsün lama rinpoche
Beloved master, precious one, father of mine,
khyé sangyé kun dang yermé kyang
You are forever one with all the buddhas,
deng möpé bu la tuk tsewé
Now show your kindness and love to your devoted child,
tral gyalsé chok gi tsul zung né
You who took birth intentionally
lar sam shying kyewa shyé dzepé
In the form of a supreme bodhisattva—
jé gyalwé wangpo longchenpa
The lord of all victorious buddhas, Longchenpa:

pa khyé kyi chinlap mi men yang
Father of mine, your blessings are not without power,
gyü nyönmong drakpö yong zung né
Yet my mind is in the grip of tempestuous disturbing emotions,
lé nakpöi chöpa darwé tsé
And as our negative actions and karma grow ever stronger,
dü nyikma nga döi semchen nam
All that awaits the sentient beings of this degenerate age
wo ngen song yangsar khonar lhung
Is to fall into the depths of the lower realms:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

lé ngar ché nam la dön ma chi
Whatever I’ve done in the past has been devoid of any meaning,
chö ngar ché nam la chö gyé dré
The Dharma I have practised till now has been riddled with the eight worldly preoccupations,
lam nalma drubpa chik ma dren
Never did it occur to me, even once, to follow the genuine path.
da khyerang minpa ré sa mé
Now there is no-one I can rely on, save you:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

lar shinjéi kyébüi gyap né dé
While the Lord of Death hounds me from behind,
dü lo da shyak gi dün né sü
Days, months, years—time draws me onwards from in front,
tral namyeng chawé bar na dri
And in between, seduced and enthralled by distraction,
dé ma tsor lü shik jung nyen da
The danger is that, without ever even realizing it, I’ll be completely deceived:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

shyön wangpo sal tsé chipé sem
In the prime of youth, the mind is immature.
lü dar la bap tsé drelwé yeng
When we come of age, we’re distracted by busyness.
da gé shing khokpar gyurpé tsé
Once old age and infirmity set in,
chö sha ma dren kyang chi né song
We may think about the real Dharma, but then it’s far too late:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

rang döpar dö kyang dö wang mé
I wish to stay on here, but it’s out of my control,
nor khyerwar dö kyang khyer mi tup
I wish to bring my possessions, but I cannot take a thing,
drok drokpar dö kyang rang chikpu
I wish for the comfort of companions, but I have to go alone;
sang jikten parol drowar ngé
Sooner or later, I will go on to the next world, that’s for sure:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

tsé di yi bakchak penpé tü
Propelled by the habitual patterns of this life,
lam bardöi trang la chi dra ang
What will it be like, my journey through the bardo realm?
pé dangsum nyalwé milam shyin
It will be as hard for me to control
lar rangwang tobpa shintu ka
As the dreams I had in my sleep last night:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

chir khorwé chö la nyingpo mé
All things in saṃsāra and nirvāṇa are devoid of any substance,
gö mitak lü la nyingpo mé
This body will not last, and has no reality of its own.
di namkhar sharwé ja tsön dra
Like the rainbow that arches across the sky,
dé denpar zung yang yal né dro
It is taken as real, but fades into thin air:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

yar sangyé nam la dépa mé
Towards the buddhas, I have not the slightest devotion,
mar semchen nam la nyingjé chung
For sentient beings, only the meagrest compassion,
gö ngur mik gyön kyang zuknyen tsam
The red robes I wear are only a show, and
tra pudri shyar yang dön go chung
My shaven head means next to nothing:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

chö töpa mang yang né ma trol
So many teachings I’ve heard, but I’ve not yet got the crucial point,
kha shepa tso yang gyü ma dul
However artful at talking, my basic being is still untamed,
né ritrö drim yang khyim la sé
I put myself into retreat, but I’m craving for home and family,
mik ta tang ché kyang nyam nyong mé
I’ve got my eyes in the right gaze, but lack any real experience:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

mi shyen gyi kyön tsang chungu rik
By marking even the smallest failing in others,
rang khong né rulwa yé ma tsor
But failing ever to notice how rotten I am inside,
mi shyen gyi gowo kor kor né
By constantly fooling and misleading other people,
duk rang gi nyöpa ma lak sam
Aren’t I just purchasing my own misery?
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

khong gyalwé sungrap malü kun
How can ignoring that the teachings of all the buddhas
sem gyü la é pen mi sempar
Are there to benefit my mind,
khé drakpa drup chir tö sam ché
And studying instead for the sake of profit or renown,
dé tarpé lam du é dro ang
Ever lead me along the path of liberation?
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

nga chöpé tsul gyi jikten drup
Passing for a practitioner, my practice is only worldly achievement,
mar kyewo kun gyi chöpa len
Taking offerings from all and sundry,
tsé yang yeng chawé ngang du tang
Careless and easy-going, I watch my life go by.
wuk trokger dro dü chi dra ang
Yet when I breathe out for the very last time, what’ll happen to me then?
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on me with all your compassion!

dak dé lé kyowa ting né kyé
Because of all this, I feel my heart breaking in sorrow,
yar sangyé nam la solwa dep
And I pray now to all the buddhas,
chir nyikmé dü kyi semchen dang
For the beings of this degenerate age, and
gö chö zuk tsulchen dak sok la
Especially those like me, who just bear the likeness of practitioners:
pa tukjé zik shik longchenpa
Longchenpa, father of mine, look on us with all your compassion!

pu nga la ré sa shyen na mé
This child has no-one to rely on now but you.
chadral gyi kyi duk khyerang shé
Idling my time away—happy, suffering, whatever happens to me, I am in your hands.
ying zakmé dechen podrang né
Lord, in the palace of the space of immaculate great bliss,
gön khyé dang yermé ro chik shok
May I remain one with you, always and forever!

If you reflect on the meaning of this song, and sing it in a free flowing chant, the blessing
of the lama will come to you, forceful and intense.

| Rigpa Translations, 2000