Prayer for this Life, the Next and the Bardos
by Khenpo Ngawang Palzang

sa chok kyilkhor ngöngyur bi ma la
Vimalamitra, who realized the maṇḍala of the supreme state,
kunzang chökü tönpa longchenpa
Longchenpa, who revealed the dharmakāya Samantabhadra,
pema ledrel tsal la solwa deb
And Pema Ledrel Tsal, to you I pray:
di chi bardo sum la tukjé zung
Hold me with compassion in this life, the next, and the bardo state!

bardo dangpö ösal sharwé tsé
When the luminosity of the first bardo state arises,
ngoshé tsal dzok tenpa tob né kyang
May I recognise it, perfect the strength and gain stability,
khyechö drukden ying su changchub né
Then, awakening in basic space with its six special features,1
shyönnu bumkur tenpa tobpar shok
May I gain stability in the youthful vase body!

riktsal longkü nangcha sharwé tsé
When the saṃbhogakāya appearances that are rigpa's expression arise,
ma pang bu juk tabü deng tob ching
May I find certainty, just like a child entering its mother's lap,
ö dang rigpa jukpé né tong né
And, realizing the key point of engaging with lights and awareness,
longchö dzokpé ku ru sangye shok
May I attain buddhahood in saṃbhogakāya form!

nammin sipa bardo sharwé dü
When the karmic bardo of becoming arises,
ma gom sangye chö ngé lam ten né
Then, through relying upon the five means of enlightenment without meditation,
namdrol wuk chen jinpé shyingkham su
In a pure realm where the great relief of liberation is assured,
kyewa chik gi sangye tobpar shok
May I attain buddhahood in a single lifetime!

Pema Ledreltsal composed this for Tsultrim Palmo. May virtue abound!

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2019.

Source: ngag dbang dpal bzang. gsung 'bum/_ngag dbang dpal bzang /. 9 vols. Chengdu: [s.n.],
[199-?]. (BDRC W22946) Vol. 1: 26–27

Version: 1.2-20220114
↑ 1) It is superior to the ground (gzhi las 'phags pa); 2) it manifests in one's own experience
(rang ngor snang ba); 3) it is discerning (bye brag phyed pa); 4) it is freed in the immediacy
of that discernment (phyed thog tu grol ba); 5) it does not arise from anything else
(gzhan las ma byung ba); 6) it abides in its own place (rang sar gnas pa).